So welcome to Finalizing
Your Class Code! In this video what we're going to do is finish off the TankMovement
Component altogether, make some final changes to it, sort out our TODOs,
check a few things, change a few things around, and talk through why we're doing that
and how that's best practice. And the, movemenet is, well this part of it is finished, which is great news!
Alright, I just want to start with this! Recently VisualStudio has started
noticing changes in this applicationhost.config file inside
of my .vs folder, I can ignore that. So if you're getting a similar thing, you're welcome
to add this exact file name to the .gitignore.
You can actually add BattleTank/.vs
to the .gitignore, if you like, because we don't need anything in the .vs folder. So I'm actually
going to do that, to future proof that .gitignore. Let's see where it's added. If you want to add it manually
BattleTank/.vs/. OK cool!
So that's the .gitignore changed, which is fine. Now let's go ahead
and open the project and the VisualStudio solution, and what we're going to do
is finish off this TankMovementComponent! It's pretty much done actually! This is the
first class, I think, that has come to a completion. So
let's start in the code and have a bit of a review, as to what's going on!
Start in the header file! I'm going to work down from the top. Fill in your copyright notice, in
the Project Settings. You know what, we should do that! So Settings in
Unreal, Project Settings, and then, somewhere we will have a Copyright
Notice. Here it is! Let's fill that in! "Copyright
EmbraceIT
Ltd." Great! So that won't change the file we've already created,
but it will mean that future files will have something like Copyright Embrace
IT Ltd. in them. Let's just fill that in for fun, by
pasting it. OK #pragma once, we leave. This is all good! Now one of the questions, do we need
this forward declaration? Well highlighting it shows that it is used,
well you can see that it's used here, UTankTrack, so yes we need it. We have a class
description. Do we need to make this class a Blueprint
SpawnableComponent? Yes! Remind ourselves why. If we look at the tank
blueprint, it is so we can add the Tank Movement Component manually like this.
We'll probably do the same thing with the Aiming Component soon. It is down here in our
Custom menu as TankMovement. So we need that bit, it's necessary.
So do we need to make this guy BlueprintCallable, the Initialize? Yes, because that's where we do
the initialization. If you remember, in the Event Graph, we Initialize here
by passing in references to the tank tracks. That's sensible! Do we need
these guys to be BlueprintCallable, IntendMoveForward and IntendTurnRight, of course, because
it's part of the input binding. So that's all good! Now a little
hint, Category, and thank you to those on the forum who pointed this out. There's a bit of a bug in Unreal right
now. That means you may get some crashes because your category
definer isn't in quotes, so to be safe let't put it in
quotes. That also lets you put strange characters in like, you know, like other
characters in the middle here, if you wanted to. So I'm going to put quotes around
this, as I go, in future. Now we said to
ourselves, let's see what protection RequestDirectMove needs. Now if you recall,
we found RequestDirectMove inside the actual
engine code. I don't remember exactly where we found it,
but if you go and look at it, it is a public method in the super class,
in the UNav component. But it turns out here, we can actually
make it as protected as private, and that was very confusing. We can make it
private. To not use that other word to confuse things. So we can actually make
it this level of protection, private, and it will still work. So let's just prove that!
And that's basically because, I'll explain with a
diagram. It's basically because if you look back
to our diagrams to how the AI system works here, where the Pathfinding
Logic has a hook into the RequestDirectMethod(), it has a pointer
to a Nav Movement Component, not a Tank Movement Component. And on the Nav Movement
Component, RequestDirectMove is a public method. So let's just
play and prove that things still work. They do! So because the
tanks are moving, RequestDirectMove must be being called, so because we can make it
private, we may as well. Let's make a comment as to what this does. So
"// Method" or we'll just say "Called
from the pathfinding
logic by the
AI controllers".
OK fantastic! So that's what's going on there! I think that the header file
is looking in good shape, I'm going to save it. Now let's go through and have a look at the
.cpp. So "copyright notice", well fine I will
put that in. Obviously it's good to do that in your Project Settings in the beginning, but I just didn't
think it's the most important thing for the learning of the section exactly. This is all
good! Now what I am going to do, very briefly, is we need to sort out this
double-speed issue. I've got a way of preventing the
double-speed. I think what I'm going to do is unbind these Shoulder Buttons, but before we
do that and consider that a solution, let's just look at
the two Throws. I'm just going to say
Right: %f, and then I'm going to say Forward:
%f" like so. And then, I'm
just going to say let's look at the (RightThrow) and let's look at the
(ForwardThrow) for all of the tanks. I just want to make sure
that these tanks are only passing values between -1 and +1. So let's just have a
look at those values. Turn my controller on so I can move my tank as well, so that all of
the tanks are reporting their Throw values. If these Throws are between -1 and +1,
then the easiest way to prevent doubling up on control between
the Left Thumbstick and the Shoulder Buttons is to just unbind the Shoulder Buttons.
Frankly we don't need to be driving it from the Shoulder Buttons. So I'm just
moving my tank forward, back, left, right. I'm going to stop, take a look at the logs,
looking for anything with a 1 or beyond. It's all good, all of these
Throws are between -1 and +1, so I'm pretty happy with that.
I'm actually going to get rid of the log entry, now that we don't need it,
further reducing our lines of code. And where we have a "// TODO
prevent double-speed due to dual control use". What I'm going to do is simply this, I'm going
to go and remove these input bindings, over in the tank blueprint.
We're no longer going to bind the left and right throttle, I don't see the point.
I might as well just use that Fly-by-Wire control. It was interesting to see how to use both of them. Of course, it is
possible to make them both work together. We have to set a local variable for the
throttle in the TankMovementComponent, and then, consume that variable
every frame. If you want to do that, it's a bit of extra credit for those of you who care, but it's
going to mess up the learning journey for the less advanced people, so
I think it seriously isn't worth doing. So by removing that
input binding we can now only use the left stick, but
life is a lot simpler. So these two methods are just
defining what the idea of moving forward and turning right does. If we ever want to make
adjustments to what moving forward and turning right does, we do them in these methods here. I'm very
happy now with how this whole class is looking. It's very tight, it's pretty
clear. It reads nicely, so I'm happy! What I'm going to do before I
ever commit is to compile and just have a quick play
test of the game. And then, start casting my mind forward to thinking, well what is the least fun
thing about this game right now, that age old question, so that in the next video we can come in
and fix that. I'm going to Compile the tank blueprint,
save the tank blueprint, play the game, hit F11, and just
make absolutely sure that, with my left stick, I can control the tank.
Slippy slidy! And in fact, that is, thinking about it while I play this,
probably the least fun thing about it now. I mean it's fun, like just in the same way that Goat
Simulator's fun, [laughs] that these tanks slide around like crazy.
And you know what, we may want to put some ice into the world, and in the
future play with those physics settings and set a different coefficient of
friction, based on the terrain paint. And
then actually, make maybe an ice lake. Maybe somebody wants to do that. And then, we'll
have some slipping and sliding if we want it, but for most of the time, I think that
we need to get rid of this slipping and sliding somehow. And
one of the easiest ways to do that is going to be to use a special piece of code that
says, well let's put a sideways force in that corrects this, because if we try and
do it purely with friction then we're going to end up needing too much power to
slide this tank along. Remember this tank is only moving because we are
pushing it really hard and these tracks aren't moving, they're just solid lumps sitting
on the ground. So that's probably what's fun! This bug, where it keeps diving,
you know hitting some invisible like boulder on the floor and spinning over, well that's also
a bit un-fun, but it's still kind of fun, I'm not bored of it yet. I'm
a bit bored of the sideways sliding. So it's all working after
compiling. I'm pretty happy with that! Let's just go ahead and close Unreal,
close VisualStudio,
and go ahead and Commit. Hopefully you have been using your source control and doing your commit.
I commit based on the name of the lecture, and do remember that you can get hold of
all of my commits here at github.com/
BenTristem and through to UnrealCourse or just straight forward slash UnrealCourse.
There's the section name, there are the commits. Clicking
over here on these angle braces will allow you to get to the code state at the
end of any video, by cloning or downloading. So congratulations! Remember also
about on your community site, community.gamedev.tv. There is a thriving Unreal
section in there, which we hope to see you in with all your shares. And
I will see you soon!